---
layout: post
title: "Introduction"
date: 2016-08-24 16:25:06 -0700
comments: false
---


# Noor GPU Cluster
Welcome to the Noor GPU cluster. This cluster is meant to `ONLY run GPU capable code.` That means either your own CUDA code or applications published by Research Computing that know how to use GPU cards to accelerate their calculations. The GPU Cluster provides a total capacity of 8 nodes of each 8 Tesla K20 GPUs, and 3 nodes of each 8 Tesla K40 GPUs with a theoretical peak performance is 343 Tflop/s (SP). It can be accessed by anybody with a Noor account, but only GPU-aware applications are available on this cluster.


Please join us on [noor-gpu.slack.com](http://noor-gpu.slack.com/)  to request libraries and/or applications that are GPU capable.


# Quickstart
* To access the cluster `ssh noor-gpu`
* Submit a job `#SBATCH --gres=gpu:k20:1 -N 1`
* [More detailed information on submitting a job](2016/08/using-slurm)
* Try the sample code from [github](https://github.com/kaust-rc/noor-gpu)


# Hardware Specs

Num | Hostnames      | NVIDIA GPU | GPU/Node | GPU Mem | Description
----|----------------|------------|----------|---------|-------------
 1 | gpu05         | Tesla K20 | 7 | 5GB  | Awaiting delivery of extra K20
 7 | gpu[6..12]    | Tesla K20 | 8 | 5GB  | HP SL270 Dual 8 core Xeon E5-2670, 256GB ram
 1 | gpu13         | Empty     |   |      | Awaiting procurement for 8 K40
 3 | gpu[14..16]   | Tesla K40 | 8 | 12GB | HP SL270 Dual 8 core Xeon E5-2670, 256GB ram
 2 | rcfen[07..08] | Tesla K40 | 1 | 12GB | Login nodes,  HP DL250 Dual 8 core Xeon E5-2670, 128GB ram



# Applications
> While we are setting up the cluster, please only launch single node jobs.  We are currently testing the installed apps for suitability and performance on multi-node jobs.  Also while there are only 11 nodes on this cluster, each has at least 40GB GPU ram, which should be sufficient in the first instance to adapt or test your codes.  Please contact us on [noor-gpu.slack.com](http://noor-gpu.slack.com/) to discuss your requirements. 

Molecular Dynamics | NAMD, GROMACS, LAMMPS, VASP_GPU (currently testing)
Bioscience | nvBIO
Compilers | [CUDA/nvcc](2018/08/cuda-intro), gcc, icc
Libraries | cuDNN
Deep Learning | Keras with Thaeno



# System Software
  * Operating System    : Red Hat Enterprise Linux Compute Node
  * Batch System        : SLURM
  * InfiniBand Stack    : Intel IB
  * Parallel Filesystem : GPFS


# First-Time Noor User
Please fill in this form if noor account access is required:
[Noor account request form](http://rcweb1.kaust.edu.sa/group/rc/IT_Forms/acct_req.html)


# Help

If you encounter any problems with the hardware or software mentioned here, please contact IT Helpdesk:

[IT Helpdesk Email](mailto:ithelpdesk@kaust.edu.sa?subject=Research Computing: Noor GPU Cluster)

Please include the following information in the support request (if applicable):

  * Job ID number(s)
  * Your user id
  * Application name
  * Description of the environment (loaded modules etc.)
  * Copy of output and error files
